As the In Startup is best understood,
this philosophy, this methodology,
is really analysing
real cases of companies
that have implanted it.
I will talk briefly about the
Zappos case.
Zappos is an e-commerce company
that was founded in the
United States in 1999.
It grew very fast and was
bought by Amazon for $1.
2 trillion.
He had imitators.
In Europe, for example, Zalando was
born with a model similar to Zappos.
But what we’re going to do
is go to the origins.
Let’s see, let’s analyze how he applied
Lym’s philosophy to take his
first steps.
The Zippo is born of an idea.
At that time there was no e-
commerce.
There was none.
Then Nick Swirmon, its
founder, his idea,
his idea is to offer a good
customer experience, a good
website navigation, a good
after-sales service, etc.,
a good customer service,
would be able to quickly
attract a lot of demand
and sell millions of shoes
online.
But it was his idea.
This idea could be right
or it could be wrong.
And what he did was to apply the
Lym philosophy in a radical way.
I will tell you what he did.
It is probably the opposite of what
you would do.
The first week he created a super
simple website and went to several
shoe shops to take photos of shoes.
He uploaded the photos to the website
with the prices and began selling
them.
He had no shoes.
What he did was when a customer
bought some shoes, ordered some
shoes on Zappos’s website, he
went to the shoe shop, bought
those shoes and sent them
to the customer.
As you can imagine, I didn’t earn
any money, but I did not.
Efficiency was very low.
He did not seek efficiency.
What you sought is exactly what we
learned in the LYN methodology,
is to validate the main hypothesis
of your business model.
That was, customers are
willing to buy shoes online.
He had to know it as soon as possible.
And he managed to validate the
model’s main hypothesis, the determining
hypothesis of whether
he had gold in his hands or
if he would not even be able
to start his business, he managed
to validate it in a week.
Let’s think now that it’s what you
would do, or that’s what anyone
else would do.
Well, what I would do is
build a website, but not a
web page like he did, no.
You would have invested money
in a website that would have
a great user experience,
which would have taken
you a lot of time and
money in 1999.
In addition, it is normal that you
reach agreements with shoe
suppliers and have a stock of shoes.
That would have taken you time and money.
Time because getting to agreements
with suppliers takes time and money
because you would have to buy
the stock in advance.
It would have been on the
market a year later.
It would have happened, thank God, in
this case it would have happened that
you would have validated that hypothesis
because customers were
willing to buy.
But many times it doesn’t happen
and many times what happens is that
the main valid hypothesis is not,
that you’ve been wrong.
All that time, all that money
goes to the trash.
However, what Zappos achieved is in
a week validating the main
hypothesis and also something
I want you to know and understand
because it is super valuable to
get feedback from customers
from the first day.
Not just feedback, but action.
Zappos was able to observe what kind
of shoes he demanded more, how
they acted on the website, what their
needs were, if they returned to new
shoes, byining interactions
with them good because they understood
their customers very well
and all that in a week.
Within a week, you spend
a lot of money.
As we see in this case, what he
managed to do is learn, which is the
key word of the Lean methodology,
is to learn as soon as possible and
spend as little money as possible.
Learn about whether your
business model hypotheses
were right or not.